(DOCSP-9476): Partitioning (#153)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/get-started/partitioning.txt

different Realm. Documents that share the same parition value belong to
the same Realm, and as a result share the same set of permissions.

Choose a Partition Key
----------------------

The field selected as your partition key must exist in every document in
your linked MongoDB Atlas database. All documents that share the same
partition key also share the same permissions, so you should select a
key whose unique values correspond with permissions. For example, you
might use the ``owner_id`` field to partition a database into Realms
corresponding to individual users. If your application shares resources
across an entire company, but not across separate companies, you could
define and partition your data by ``company_id``.

Define a Partition Key
----------------------

You can define a partition key when enabling :term:`Realm sync` for your
Realm app. After selecting a cluster to sync, choose your partition key.
You can either use an existing field or create a new field.

Limitations of Partition Keys
-----------------------------

Partition keys are subject to certain limitations:

- You can only define partition keys using values of the String,
  ObjectID, Int, or Long types.

> - Once you've chosed a partition key and enabled sync, you cannot change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once you have chosen a partition key and enabled sync, you cannot change
```

  the partition key to a different field. To use a different field as
  your partition key, disable Realm sync and enable Realm sync again,
  selecting the new field as your partition key.

- You cannot change the field name for your partition key.

- Partition values should only change rarely. If you change a partition
  value from Atlas, Realm interprets the change as a deletion of the
  corresponding :term:`Realm object` from its original Realm and an
  insertion of a new Realm object into its new Realm.
  
- Changing a partition value from the Realm SDK is an error and will

>   trigger a client reset.

Reviewer: Is there a relevant link for client reset?

============
Partitioning

> ============

Reviewer 2: Let's use a verb phrase for this page title:
- Partition Data into Realms
- Map Documents to Realm Objects
- Define a Partition Key

Author: sounds good, i was thinking about that first choice already. I'm not sure where a stepfile would be appropriate, though -- as I mentioned on slack before, the "define a partition key" process is really just a subset of the steps to enable sync. I'd like to avoid repeating those steps in a separate guide because it's not something you can even do in isolation so it really truly is just "part of the sync enable process". Rest of these changes look solid though, I'll.

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

Your :term:`Realm app's <Realm app>` :term:`linked MongoDB Atlas cluster
<linked cluster>` contains all of the data stored by your application:
data for every client, every user, and every object you chose to persist

> in a database.

Author: - Moving away from the "every" repetition, good point.
- In this case I'm referring more to personal use data ("my todos") or user config data, like you'd store in custom user data. There are definitely some use cases that don't need to store this kind of data but I think as a general rule every user ends up having some data stored about them, even if it's just the data they've generated.
- You might want to take a look at my conversations with drew/ian in docs-realm -- TL;DR synced data != data in your linked cluster. Because any collection can just omit a realm schema and still exist in atlas while not synced.

Client applications only need the data relevant to that specific client.
Many clients only have permission to access certain data. Most
clients must never access private data for other clients,
like user settings or personal information.

Partitioning helps you turn the large amount of data stored by your
application into the small amount of data needed by individual clients,
called :term:`Realms <Realm>`.

Partition Keys
--------------

> MongoDB Realm uses the :term:`partition key` to sort

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MongoDB Realm uses the :term:`partition key` to map
```

> :term:`MongoDB documents <MongoDB document>` in Atlas into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:term:`MongoDB documents <MongoDB document>` in a synced cluster to
```

Author: Going to use the phrase "linked Atlas cluster" for now for consistency above, and I'll introduce the new term "synced cluster" later on (and add it to the glossary)

different Realm. Documents that share the same parition value belong to
the same Realm and, as a result, share the same permissions.

Choose a Partition Key
----------------------

The field selected as your partition key must exist in every document in
your linked MongoDB Atlas database. All documents that share the same
partition key also share the same permissions, so you should select a
key whose unique values correspond with permissions.

.. example::

   You might use the ``owner_id`` field to partition a database into Realms
   corresponding to individual users. If your application shares resources
   across an entire company, but not across separate companies, you could
   define and partition your data by ``company_id``.

Define a Partition Key
----------------------

You can define a partition key when enabling :term:`Realm sync` for your
Realm app. After selecting a cluster to sync, choose your partition key.
You can either use an existing field or create a new field.

Limitations of Partition Keys
-----------------------------

Partition keys are subject to certain limitations:

- You can only define partition keys using values of the String,

>   ObjectID, Int, or Long types.

Reviewer 2: ```rst
Partition keys must be one of the following types:

- String
- ObjectID
- Int
```

- Once you have chosen a partition key and enabled sync, you cannot
  change the partition key to a different field. To use a different
  field as your partition key, disable Realm sync and enable Realm sync

>   again, selecting the new field as your partition key.

Reviewer 2: What's the scary impact of this? I assume universal client resets?

Author: indeed

> - You cannot change the field name for your partition key.

Reviewer 2: This seems like the same as the previous bullet. I like the direct phrasing though - can we combine?

```rst
You cannot change the partition key field name after sync has been enabled. To use a different field...
```

Author: I think you may have missed the difference between the two (my fault!) -- the first bullet point states that you can't point the partition key at a different field. The second bullet point states that you can't change the name of the field pointed to by the partition key. They're definitely similar points, but I want to make both clear because I can see question cropping up about either!

- Partition values should only change rarely. If you change a partition
  value from Atlas, Realm interprets the change as a deletion of the
  corresponding :term:`Realm object` from its original Realm and an

>   insertion of a new Realm object into its new Realm.

Reviewer 2: "Partition values should only change rarely" seems less like a limitation and more like guidance for working around a deeper limitation.

The rest of the bullet seems more like behavior than a limitation. What's limiting about deleting and inserting to move an object between Realms?

Author: Good point -- added the concrete limitation here, and leaving out the general guidance, which shouldn't have come first anyway.

  
- Changing a partition value from the Realm SDK is an error and will

>   trigger a :ref:`client reset <client-reset>`.

Reviewer 2: How does this happen? Can I just straight up change the value of a partition key on any object like any other field?
I'm also interested in why we both throw an error AND make you client reset.

- "is an error" -> "throws an error"

Author: Honestly I don't think anyone knows yet. The client SDK *shouldn't* let you change it, but I'm not so sure we can just assume that so I put that here to be safe...

As for the "is an error and will trigger" that's just because a client reset can only be triggered by an error showing up in the realm error handler.

Basically I'm tempted to leave this here until we know more about the SDK. Going to open a ticket to verify the behaviour and update this bullet point once it's finalized.

Author: Created https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/DOCSP-9751 to revisit this.
